Demos (#13)
eProsima-Private/AML-Tools: docs/rst/demos/debugger.rst

.. include:: /rst/exports/roles.include

.. _demos_debugger:

> AMLDL Debugger
> ##############

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AML-DL Debugger
###############
```

Here we use the embedding described in :ref:`demos_queens_embedding` as an example.

We have also added the following duple to create an inconsistet embedding, and illustrate the debugging process.

.. code-block:: python

    theEmbedding.REGION = 14
    ADD(INC(F("Q", 4), F("E", 4)))

Basic use
*********

> To execute the AMLDL Debugger:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To execute the AML-DL Debugger:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    python amlDebugger.py queens_embedding.py parameters

We can use additional parameters to make our embedding more flexible.
Change the call to the `embedding` function adding the "boardDim" as a function parameter.

.. code-block:: python

    def embedding(boardDim):

In this examples, when not specified, we call the embedding with dimension 8, same as a conventional chessboard.

.. code-block:: bash

    python amlDebugger.py queens_embedding.py 8

> The AMLDL Debugger should welcome you with the following menu screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AML-DL Debugger should welcome you with the following menu screen.
```

.. image:: img/debugger_menu.png
   :width: 1002
   :alt: AMLDL Debugger main menu
   :align: center

Expected format
===============

> The AMLDL Debugger expects a tuple with the names of the constants and the positive and negative duples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AML-DL Debugger expects a tuple with the names of the constants and the positive and negative duples.
```

The correct return can easily be achieved by ending your embedding function with the following lines:

.. code-block:: python

    constantNames = [el.key for el in F("constants pending transfer to algebra").r]
    p = F("inclusions").r
    n = F("exclusions").r

    return constantNames, p, n

Creating an embedding
*********************

> The AMLDL Debugger can greatly help to build embeddings by displaying in a user-friendly manner the constants and duples resulting from AMLDL expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AML-DL Debugger can greatly help to build embeddings by displaying in a user-friendly manner the constants and duples resulting from AMLDL expressions.
```

This can be useful to detect errors early while creating embeddings.

> The suggested workflow is to build the minimum scaffold for an embedding, load it into the AMLDL Debugger, and then simply refresh it using the reload key `R` to display the changes on the embedding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The suggested workflow is to build the minimum scaffold for an embedding, load it into the AML-DL Debugger, and then simply refresh it using the reload key `R` to display the changes on the embedding.
```

This code snippets can be used as a template for your embedding.

> The AMLDL Debugger can read it with no issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AML-DL Debugger can read it with no issue.
```
